# Syntax
C&sup2;'s syntax determines how a C squared program **must look**.

## Concrete syntax
The abstract syntax might correspond to various concrete ones, even if they are different in style. That's why the *concrete syntax* exists.

The concrete syntax dictates how a C&sup2; program MUST be syntacticaly. It is formed by various concrete rules, which, if not followed, cause a syntax error.

> [C&sup2;'s grammar](./concrete_syntax.md).

## Lexer
The lexer is a program which generates a list of Tokens[^token]. It is the first step in C&sup2;'s compiler, which goes before the parser, and 
allows for the parser to use a list of words rather than the whole source directly. You **COULD** consider the lexer a *"crutch"* for the parser, 
or even a part of it.

[Further reading](./lexer/index.md) of the lexer.

To see what input the lexer accepts, read [Lexical information](../lexical/index.md).

> [!NOTE]
> The lexer's source can be found [here](https://github.com/csq-lang/csquared/blob/main/src/csquare/lexer.c).

## Parser
The parser is a program which generates an [AST (Abstract Syntax Tree)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree).

The abstract syntax tree allows the compiler to read the original source, which was only human readable 
(partially, as we could technically directly compile the source in a text format, although unefficient and too complex), 
in a friendlier format consisting of a syntactical tree in memory.

[Further reading](./parser/index.md) of the parser.

> [!NOTE]
> The parser's source can be found [here](https://github.com/csq-lang/csquared/tree/main/src/parser).

[^token]: A word, digit or character generated by the *lexer* and used by the *parser* to generate the AST. [Further reading](./lexer/tokens.md)
